# Simple HTML tags

There are many tags available in HTML. Here you will learn about common tags that you'll use as a developer.

## Headings
Headings allow you to display titles and subtitles on your webpage.

```html
<h1>Heading 1</h1>
<h2>Heading 2</h2>
<h3>Heading 3</h3>
<h4>Heading 4</h4>
<h5>Heading 5</h5>
<h6>Heading 6</h6>
```
<div>
<h1>Heading 1</h1>
<h2>Heading 2</h2>
<h3>Heading 3</h3>
<h4>Heading 4</h4>
<h5>Heading 5</h5>
<h6>Heading 6</h6>
</div>


## Paragraphs
Paragraphs contain text content.

```html
<p>
   This paragraph
   contains a lot of lines
   but they are ignored.
</p>
```
The following displays in the web browser: 

<div>
<p>
   This paragraph
   contains a lot of lines
   but they are ignored.
</p>
</div>

**Note** that putting content on a new line is ignored by the web browser.


## Line Breaks
As you've learned, line breaks in the paragraph tag line are ignored by HTML. Instead, they must be specified using the <br> tag. The <br> tag does not need a closing tag.

```html
<p>
   This paragraph<br>
   contains a lot of lines<br>
   and they are displayed.
</p>
```
The following displays in the web browser: 
<div>
<p>
   This paragraph<br>
   contains a lot of lines<br>
   and they are displayed.
</p>
</div>

## Strong
`Strong` tags can be used to indicate that a range of text has importance.

```html
<p>
   No matter how much the dog barks: <strong>don't feed him chocolate</strong>.
</p>

```
The following displays in the web browser: 
<div>
<p>
   No matter how much the dog barks: <strong>don't feed him chocolate</strong>.
</p>
</div>


## Bold
Bold tags can be used to draw the reader's attention to a range of text.

```html
<p>
   The primary colors are <b>red</b>, <b>yellow</b> and <b>blue</b>.
</p>

```

<div>
<p>
   The primary colors are <b>red</b>, <b>yellow</b> and <b>blue</b>.
</p>

</div>

Bold tags should be used to draw attention but not to indicate that something is more important. Consider the following example:

The three core technologies of the Internet are <b>HTML</b>, <b>CSS</b> and <b>Javascript</b>.
The following displays in the web browser:

## Emphasis
Emphasis tags can be used to add emphasis to text.

```html
<p>
   Wake up <em>now</em>!
</p>
```
The following displays in the web browser:

<div>
<p>
   Wake up <em>now</em>!
</p>
</div>


## Italics
Italics tags can be used to offset a range of text.

```html
<p>
   The term <i>HTML</i> stands for HyperText Markup Language.
</p>

```
The following displays in the web browser: 

<div>
<p>
   The term <i>HTML</i> stands for HyperText Markup Language.
</p>
</div>

> **Emphasis vs. Italics**
> By default both tags will have the same visual effect in the web browser. The only difference is the meaning.
> 
> - Emphasis tags stress the text contained in them. Let's explore the following example:
> - Italics represent off-set text and should be used for technical terms, titles, a thought or a phrase from another language, for example:

## Lists
You can add lists to your web pages. There are two types of lists in HTML.

Lists can be unordered using the `<ul>` tag. List items are specified using the `<li>` tag, for example:

```html
<ul>
   <li>Tea</li>
   <li>Sugar</li>
   <li>Milk</li>
</ul>

```
This displays in the web browser as:

<div>
<ul>
   <li>Tea</li>
   <li>Sugar</li>
   <li>Milk</li>
</ul>
</div>

Lists can also be ordered using the `<ol>` tag. Again, list items are specified using the `<li>` tag.

```html
<ol>
   <li>Rocky</li>
   <li>Rocky II</li>
   <li>Rocky III</li>
</ol>

```
This displays as the following in the web browser.

<div>
<ol>
   <li>Rocky</li>
   <li>Rocky II</li>
   <li>Rocky III</li>
</ol>
</div>

## Div tags
A `<div>` tag defines a content division in a HTML document. It acts as a generic container and has no effect on the content unless it is styled by CSS.

The following example shows a `<div>` element that contains a paragraph element:

```html
<div>
   <p>This is a paragraph inside a div</p>
</div>

```
This displays as the following in the web browser.
<div>
    <div>
       <p>This is a paragraph inside a div</p>
    </div>
</div>

It can be nested inside other elements, for example:

```html
<div>
   <div>
      <p>This is a paragraph inside a div that’s inside another div</p>
   </div>
</div>
```
This displays in the web browser as:
<div>
    <div>
       <div>
          <p>This is a paragraph inside a div that’s inside another div</p>
       </div>
    </div>
</div>


Div inside a dive displayed in browser
As mentioned, the div has no impact on content unless it is styled by CSS. Let’s add a small CSS rule that styles all divs on the page.

Don't worry about the meaning of the CSS just yet, you'll explore CSS further in a later lesson. In summary, you're applying a rule that adds a border and some visual spacing to the element.

<html>
<body>
    <style>
       div {
          border: 1px solid red;
          padding: 2px;
       }
    </style>
    <div>
       <div>
          <p>This is a <b>paragraph</b> inside stylized divs</p>
       </div>
    </div>
</body>
<html/>

This displays in the web browser as:

Paragraph in stylized div displayed in browser img13
Div elements are an important part of building webpages. More advanced usage of div elements will be explored in another course.

Comments
If you want to leave a comment in the code for other developers, it can be added as:

<!-- This is a comment --> 

The comment will not be displayed in the web browser.
